[MODULE] add synthetic data generation (#121)
huggingface/smol-course: 6_synthetic_datasets/README.md

## Module Overview

Synthetic data for smoll language models can be categorized into three taxonomies: instructions, preferences and critiques. We will focus on the first two categories, which focus on the generation of dataseets for instruction tuning and preference alignment. During both categories, we will cover aspects of the third category, which focuses on improving existing data with model critiques and rewrites.

![Synthetic Data Taxonomies](./images/taxonomy-synthetic-data.png)

## Contents

### 1. [Instruction Datasets](./instruction_datasets.md)

Learn how to generate instruction datasets for instruction tuning. We will explore creating instruction tuning datasets thorugh basic prompting and using prompts more refined techniques from papers. Instruction tuning datasets with seed data for in-context learning can be created through methods like SelfInstruct and Magpie. Additionally, we will explore instruction evolution through EvolInstruct. [Start learning](./instruction_datasets.md).

### 2. [Preference Datasets](./preference_datasets.md)

> Learn how to generate preference datasets for preference alignment. We will built on top of the methods and techniques introduced in the previous section. Using this as basis we will generate additional responses and learn how to improve such responses with the EvolQuality prompt. Lastly, we will explore how to evaluate responses with the UltraFeedback prompt which will produce a score and critique, allowing us to create preference pairs. [Start learning](./preference_datasets.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to generate preference datasets for preference alignment. We will build on top of the methods and techniques introduced in section 1, by generating additional responses. Next, we will learn how to improve such responses with the EvolQuality prompt. Finally, we will explore how to evaluate responses with the the UltraFeedback prompt which will produce a score and critique, allowing us to create preference pairs. [Start learning](./preference_datasets.md).
```

### Exercise Notebooks

| Title | Description | Exercise | Link | Colab |
|-------|-------------|----------|------|-------|
| Instruction Dataset | Generate a dataset for instruction tuning | 🐢 Generate an instruction tuning dataset <br> 🐕 Generate a dataset for instruction tuning with seed data <br> 🦁 Generate a dataset for instruction tuning with seed data and with instruction evolution | [Link](./notebooks/instruction_sft_dataset.ipynb) | [Colab](https://githubtocolab.com/huggingface/smol-course/tree/main/6_synthetic_datasets/notebooks/instruction_sft_dataset.ipynb) |

> | Preference Dataset | Generate a dataset for preference alignment | 🐢 Generate a preference alignment dataset <br> 🐕 Generate a preference alignment dataset with response evolution <br> 🦁 Generate a preference alignment dataset with response evolution and critiques  | [Link](./notebooks/preference_alignment_dataset.ipynb) | [Colab](https://githubtocolab.com/huggingface/smol-course/tree/main/6_synthetic_datasets/notebooks/preference_alignment_dataset.ipynb) |

Reviewer: Great exercises!

## Resources

- [Distilabel Documentation](https://distilabel.argilla.io/latest/)

> - [Synthetic Data Generator](https://huggingface.co/blog/synthetic-data-generator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Synthetic Data Generator is UI app](https://huggingface.co/blog/synthetic-data-generator)
```
